Sometimes I find it easier to understand
how models work by looking at
their dimensions at each step.
I personally find it easier to follow
along the equations while keeping
the dimensions in mind.
So I thought this would help you too,
let's take a look at the dimensions of
the layers at each step of the model.
You just saw the architecture of
the continuous bag of words model, and
the vectors, and matrices that
are involved to make calculations on it.
Now I'll introduce you to the dimensions
of these vectors, and matrices.
Here is the architecture of
the neural network, again, first,
the input layer is
represented by lowercase, x,
a column vector with zeros where capital
V, is the size of the vocabulary.
To get the values that will be stored in
the hidden layer, you first calculate
the weighted sum of the values from
the input layer, and add the bias.
So W1x+b1, and
I'll call the results z1, lower case h,
refers to the column of values stored,
and the hidden layer,
to get h, you pass the values
of z1 into a ReLU activation.
So in terms of dimensions, W1,
the weighting matrix between the input
layer, and the hidden layer,
has n rows, and V columns, where n
is the size of the word embeddings.
b1, the bias vector for
the hidden layer, has one row for
each neuron in the hidden layer,
so n in total.
So when you multiply W1 by x, and
add bias vector b1, you get a column
vector with n rows, and passing it
through ReLU preserves the dimensions.
So as expected,
the hidden layer is represented
by a column vector with n rows.
Next to get the values of the output
player, you first need to calculate
the weighted sum of the values from
the hidden layer, and add the bias.
So W2h+b2, which I'll call z2,
the values in z2 are sometimes
referred to as loggings.
To get the output y hat,
you pass the values of the z2 logging
through a softmax activation function.
Again, you'll see details of
the activation functions,
later in the lecture.
W2, the weighting matrix
between the hidden layer, and
the output layer, has V rows, and
n columns, b2, the bias vector for
the output layer, has one role for
each output neuron, so V rows.
When you multiply W2 by the vector for
the hidden layer h, and
the add bias vector b2, you get
a column vector with V rows, and again,
no change when you pass it
through softmax activation.
So finally, you get the output
column vector y hat with V rows..
If you have a situation where instead of
column vectors you're working with row
vectors, then you'll need to perform
the calculations with transposed matrices,
and inverted terms in
the matrix multiplication.
So for instance,
instead of calculating h=W1x + b1,
as you did with the column vectors,
if x, and b1 are row vectors,
then you would calculate xW1
transposed plus b1 to get z1,
and then h, as a row vector.
Next, I'll show you how to use
the neural network with batches of
several examples instead of
just one example at a time.
Now that you know the dimensions,
this will help you in your
programming assignments.
Hopefully, you'll not get the famous
dimension mismatch anymore.
Let's look into this model a little
bit more in the next video.